Assignment 1

Specifications

Version 0.1

Design Methodology Requirements

1. Apply SOLID and GRASP Design Principles
2. Select and use Design Patterns

Problem

1. One Chess Board
	A. Characteristics:
		i.	Shape: Square
		ii.	Design: 6 columns by 6 rows with a checkers patterns using black and white
		iii. 	Output: When a player has a turn and selects on of thier pieces all valid moves are to be highlighted for the individual or combined piece.
2. Four Pieces
	A. Name: Rook
		i. Characteristics:
			i.	Shape: Castle
			ii.	Movement: May move Vertically or Horizontally n co-ordinates until the end of the board
				is reached or until another piece is reached, in which case move into that pieces co-ordinate.
			iii.	Combine: When moved to another piece of the same colour and the piece does not consist of any 
				variation of castle, combine. 
			iv: 	When killed: update the opponents score by 5, remove castle from chess board (maybe place in some container?)
			v:	Colour: May be black or white
			vi: 	Qnty: 2 Black, 2 White
			vii:	Start Location: Black, one in each corner of the top of Chess Board, (0,0) and (5,0)
						White, one in each corner of the bottom of Chess Board, (0,5) and (5,5)
	B. Name: Bishop
		i. Characteristics:
			i.	Shape: Bishop's Hat
			ii.	Movement: May move Diagonally n co-ordinates until the end of the board	is reached or until another piece is reached, 
				in which case move into that pieces co-ordinate.
			iii.	Combine: When moved to another piece of the same colour and the piece does not consist of any 
				variation of Bishop, combine. 
			iv: 	When killed: update the opponents score by 5, remove Bishop from chess board (maybe place in some container?)
			v:	Colour: May be black or white
			vi: 	Qnty: 2 Black, 2 White
			vii:	Start Location: Black, one in each in the co-ordinate one in from the corner at the top of Chess Board, (1,0) and (4,0)
						White, one in each in the co-ordinate one in from the corner at the bottom of Chess Board, (1,5) and (4,5)
	C. Name: Knight
		i. Characteristics:
			i.	Shape: Horse's Head
			ii.	Movement: May only move two co-ordinates vertical and horizontal and one co-ordinate perpendicular (L), only if result is still on the chess board.
			iii.	Combine: When moved to another piece of the same colour and the piece does not consist of any 
				variation of Knight, combine. 
			iv: 	When killed: update the opponents score by 5, remove Knight from chess board (maybe place in some container?)
			v:	Colour: May be black or white
			vi: 	Qnty: 2 Black, 2 White
			vii:	Start Location: Black, one on the black centre co-ordinate, one on the white centre co-ordinate, at the top of Chess Board, (2,0) and (3,0)
						White, one on the black centre co-ordinate, one on the white centre co-ordinate, at the bottom of Chess Board, (2,5) and (3,5)
	D. Name: Barrier
		i. Characteristics:
			i.	Shape: Star
			ii.	Movement: Nil
			iii.	Combine: Nil 
			iv: 	When killed: update the opponents score by 1, remove castle from board (maybe place in some container?)
			v:	Colour: Blue
			vi: 	Qnty: 12
			vii:	Start Location: Fill rows 2 and 3 (initial row = 0)
			
3. Combine:
	A. Characteristics:
		i. 	Occurrence: When a piece moves into a co-ordinate occupied by a piece of the same colour which is not the same type as itself they are known as combined.
		ii. 	Selecting Combination/Spliting: : For a players turn if they select a combined piece they will be prompted to move with a single piece of the combination, or the entire combination
			(may allow further spliting, if three exist, spilt to two and move??)
		iii. 	Movement: For the selected combination, moves of that type are valid
		iv.  	When killed: update oppenent score by killing individual pieces.
		v.   	Shape: the shapes are reduced in size and painted onto co-ordinate (may what something nicer?)
		vi. 	Colour: Same as Piece
	
4. Game Rules
	A. Number of Turns: 
		i. 	Select: User input before start of game, locked when game starts
		ii. 	Range: 10 - 50
	B. Playing Order
		i. 	Start: The player with the white pieces always moves first (chess rules)
		ii. 	Continued play: After start every turn is alternate between black and white pieces
	C. Game End
		i. 	End: When both players have had n turns
		ii. 	Winner: Player with the most points wins
5. Game Control (just ideas)
		i. 	Start Game: Upon start game the game pulls defaults
			- Board pieces reset
			- Scores reset
			- Turns = 10
		ii.	When a tile is clicked
			is a piece already selected?
			a.	True, does this piece reside in this tile? (b)
			b.	True, Is there more than one piece? (c)
			c.	True, combine/split prompt.
			a.	False, does the tile hold any active user piece? (d)
			d.	True, go to b. True.
			d.	False, ignore click
			c.	False, deselect piece
			b.	False, is this tile a valid move? (e)
			e.	True, move selected piece
			e.	False, ignore

		iii.	Upon Completion: Displays winner, has play again or finish button. 
			Finish 	- takes back to display to update turns input
				- Reset scores
				- Resets Pieces on Chess Board
			Reset	- Uses previous Turn input
				- Resets Score
				- Resets Pieces on Chess Board
		
5. Visual
	A. Must have a Chess board
	B. Pieces
	C. output number of turns
	D. Input to select number of turns
	E. Button to start game
	F. Score Display
	
	